# Haile_intersectionality_MDSA
Replication files for "Returning to an Analysis Of Power and the Centrality Of Black Women: An Empirical Response to Intersectionality’s Current Dilemma"

This repository houses the replication materials for this paper. As of September 2024, this paper has not been published. The Future of Families data used in this study is publicly available at https://ffcws.princeton.edu/documentation . 

Paper Abstract: In the decades since Crenshaw’s initial formulation of intersectionality, the concept has become a site of considerable contention. Each of these disputes have led to alterations to the framework that have centered identity and marginalized Black women. These changes contributed to intersectionality’s current dilemma where it has been reduced, according to some, into a “buzzword”—a far cry from its political origins and the material realities of Black women. In this study, I join the primarily theoretical work of scholars aiming to correct these moves in intersectional research with an empirical, quantitive contribution. Specifically, I employ multidimensional sequence analysis as a novel method to approximate various institutional arrangements, demonstrating how they configure to entangle Black women in persistent hardship. I find that Black and white mothers are living nearly inverted realities: Black mothers were disproportionately among those experiencing high levels of persistent, compounded deprivation where their hardships attracted further adversity across additional domains, while white mothers’ hardships were far more contained. In doing so, I offer an approach to documenting Black women’s hardships in a way that both better approximates intersectionality’s initial political and theoretical premise as well as more closely reflects Black women’s lived experiences of deprivation.

Feel free to email Solome with any comments and/or questions.
